Ladies and gentlemen, friends of Tennessee, I'm very happy to have with me today in the
studio one of the finest members of the United States Senate, man who works hard for progressive
legislation who is effective in his presentation of legislative proposals and of his viewpoint.
He has been to Tennessee on many occasions and we consider him one of our Tennessee's
and best friends and I think one of the very ablest members of the Senate, Wayne Morris
of Oregon.
It certainly is good to have you with us.
Well, that's just very kind to let me visit with you and your constituents on this program.
You can close your ears for just a moment because I know you're a modest man.
Well, I want to send you your constituents.
It's a privilege to work with us as Keith Offer in the Senate and I want to thank him and
view of his constituents for the wonderful help he was to me a few days ago as we carried
through the Senate by a vote of 49 to 34, the federal aid education bill.
As Keith Offer was a great help to me, it's a bill that's going to be of great help to
Tennessee because you're going to get a substantial contribution from the federal government
to be of assistance in your schools but with complete state control of the expenditure
of the money.
Well, Wayne, thank you very much for your nice remarks.
You've been not as thoughtful going down to Knoxville and other places in Tennessee making
speeches to our people on several occasions.
Senator Morris is a member of the Labor and Public Works Committee and is chairman of
the Education Subcommittee.
And I think one of the best legislative handling of a bill that I have seen, but ever since
I've been in the United States Senate, was the remarkable way that he steered the education
bill through the United States Senate recently without any crippling amendments involving
either race or religion, got through a fine clean bill which is now in the House of Representatives.
This bill, I believe, provides $850 million a year for school construction and to supplement
teachers salaries over a three-year period.
Is that right?
Yes, that's the system.
$850 million per year bill.
And it's child bill for three years or triad for three years.
I'm satisfied that after three years the American people will insist that it be continued.
But you know, as to say, the fear argument that's been used for so long against federal
aid to education is that you can't have federal contributions to the states without the federal
government somehow dominating education.
Now there's no basis in that argument, but as long as the fear exists, you got to face
up to the fear.
So we have passed a bill that's for a three-year trial period.
It is a bill that has an equalization formula in it, which simply means that the states that
need the money the most will get the larger share of the money.
And why do we put it on that basis?
Because we take the position that every boy and girl in this country is entitled to an
equal chance to develop his or her intellectual power.
And that's where the national interest comes in.
Now, how do we protect the states?
We protect the states by making it perfectly clear in the bill that the money goes to the
states is co-mingled with state educational funds is spent by the states and the cardinance
with state educational policy.
Now, I've been in this struggle for many, many years in the Senate.
I've been in the Senate now going on 17 years.
I was a co-sponsor of the Taff Bill in 47 of the Taff Thompson Bill in 49.
We passed both of those through the Senate.
I've introduced these bills year after year since I've been in the Senate.
And last year, we passed what is known as Senate Bill number eight.
It is almost identical with the bill that we just passed the other day in the Senate.
I want to make one more point.
I don't want to make speech as this one.
You're doing fine with how to explain this.
I want to tell you, people in Tennessee are very much interested in this bill.
And I think the great majority of people realize that we need it in Tennessee.
It will make available $23,500,000 for school construction and to supplement teacher
salvers in the next fiscal year in Tennessee.
So you're making a fine speech.
You go right on that.
Well, another one that covers school construction and teacher salaries, but you can also use it
for any other educational purpose in public, elementary and secondary schools.
For example, if you need to use it for equipment in your physics and chemistry laboratories,
it can be used for that purpose too.
We leave that decision up to you at the state.
But let me point out that I think the argument that helps us defeat those that keep stirring
up opposition to federal aid to education with the false charge that it will lead to federal
domination of schools.
So we pointed out that one third of the children in secondary and elementary schools in the
country have been getting federal aid for 10 years and to the tune of two billions of
dollars.
All of us as taxpayers have contributed to about a third of the public school population
in this country and elementary and secondary schools, two billion dollars.
Under what is known is public law 874 and 815.
Those are the two bills that cover the so-called federally impacted areas of the country,
and the federal government has an atomic energy plant or a military reservation or some
other federal installation that brings in many families working for the federal government
with many children.
And then we have Spence and...
Well, in that connection we have a great many military installations in Tennessee, Oak
Ridge, Tallahoma.
Oh, yes.
And may I say that the Senator Keith Offer was on the ball, so to speak, because the
original bill that came before us, and I had this always unpleasant when you have to
disagree with your administration, I had the unpleasant task of informing the administration
that we would not accept that section of the original proposal of the administration
bill that sought to cut back drastically on these school districts that are now receiving
federal funds in the federally impacted area.
18 Senators and your Senator was one of them.
18 Senators called our attention to the fact that it would do a great injustice to their
states, so we struck that from the bill.
And we continue under this bill to provide this federal money for these federally impacted
school districts.
But then I want to take you back to 1863.
In 1863, the Moral Act was signed, which provided federal aids to every land grant
college in America.
You people in Tennessee have been the beneficiaries of that, to the tune of tens upon tens of
thousands of dollars to your land grant colleges, as there's every other state.
And then we've had a whole series of other special forms of aid to the schools of the
country for years.
So what we, well, we got their school lunch program.
School lunch program is another example of it.
So we just, we just rode on this argument, so to speak.
And the Senate, once it got the facts, saw that there was no basis in fact for the argument
that our bill would jeopardize local control of education.
I'm proud of this bill.
I'm proud of the wonderful support that we got for our bill.
And I again want to thank Senator Kiefer for his help.
Well, that was a great legislative achievement.
And you were the Generalissimo guiding us in the Senate.
And I have a feeling that such a good record was made and your arguments were so persuasive
in favor of this bill that we have the best chance of getting a bill through the House
of Representatives we've had in many, many years.
How do you feel about that?
Well, I'm very hopeful that we can get it through the House.
And if the people listening to this telecast want to help the schoolboys and girls of
this country, see to it that your House representative's no-year views on it because I close my
comment of this education bill with a truism I'd have you never forget.
I consider this bill a great defense measure because as I've said so many times, but we'll
keep right on saying it until all the American people recognize it's truth.
We just can't keep ahead of Russia in manpower.
But we Americans better see to it that we keep ahead of Russia in brainpower.
And that's why we need this federal aid education bill to help you people in the states meet
your educational responsibilities because how you're doing it now.
You're doing it by overtaxing your real property.
And many taxpayer listening to me who owns real property knows how right I am.
We've already increased the taxes on real property to support our schools far below
beyond the role of fairness.
It's about time that we get some tax help from the federal government that will help the
local taxpayer meet the school expenses of this district.
Well I wish we could go on about the education bill because it is so very important for
all of us and we're certainly going to work hard to do what we can to get it through the
House of Representatives and I hope that anyone interested may be in touch with our congressman.
But you know Senator Morris is a distinguished and has been for some time a member of the
Foreign Relations Committee.
And as such he is the chairman of the Latin American Subcommittee.
In addition to this he has was the member of the United States delegation to the 15th
General Assembly of the United Nations.
We're all interested way in and don't have the benefit of hearing the executive testimony
before the Foreign Relations Committee and how we stand in Latin America and what can
we do to restore our prestige and get in better shape with our neighbors to the south of
us.
Well as to I wish I could report that in my opinion we stand high but we don't.
I don't suppose our prestige has been lower in Latin America at any time in the last 20
years and it has been during the last few years.
I think our policy has been very bad in Latin America.
I speak most respectfully and non-partisanly but factually when I point out that the Latin
American program of the preceding administration is chief cause I think for the great slump
in Latin American U.S. relations.
We've got to stop U.S. unilateral action toward Latin America.
We've got to adopt a program and present Kennedy's program now called Alliance Progress
will accomplish that end if it's implemented.
We've got to get our friends in Latin America to join with us in a cooperative Latin American
program.
And that means of course that the organization of American states which is based upon a treaty
signed by 21 nations including us has really got to be implemented.
And we've got to bring in our friends in Latin America to join with us in developing
a Latin American program on a cooperative basis.
And we've got to stop taking the attitudes that we the United States are going to call
the tune in Latin America.
Well we're not going to do it even if we try because if we continue to follow the policy
we've been following in Cuba and no one has opposed cast through more than I have.
I have led the fight in the Senate as chairman of the subcommittee in Latin America against
the cast through regime because I'm perfectly convinced that it's a comeline regime and
that Moscow is dictating in large measure the policies of Castro.
But that doesn't justify unilateral action on the part of the United States.
And so I am urging that we go through the organization of American states and work
out a cooperative program with them.
As you know Estes I was one of the two congressional delegates to the Bogota conference last
September that came back with the act of Bogota.
The act of Bogota is an aid program or proposes an aid program for Latin America with United
States help.
But not with full payment for the United States and I want to very quickly say we have said
very clearly and we must make it clear to Latin America.
We'll help Latin America if Latin America is willing to help itself.
Now you say Mr. Senator what must Latin America do to get our help?
Well I want to name a few things very quickly.
You know the main past time in Latin America is tax evasion.
The Latin Americans are going to have to pay taxes.
They're going to have to raise money to help themselves.
They got to have a program of land reform, social justice reform.
That's the kind of a program that the president Kennedy is supporting and that I endorse.
Well you know I know the people who are viewing this program feel as I do that they're
awfully sorry that has to be brought to an end.
It's been very fine of you to come and come down to Tennessee to see us soon and thank
you very much.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
That's all for now ladies and gentlemen.
Ladies and gentlemen friends of Tennessee I think all of us realize that the strength
of the Western nations of Europe and of the and the United States and Canada offer the
greatest hope and assurance for peace if we can stand together and work together all
one for all and all for one militarily, economically and politically so that in 1949 the North
Atlantic Treaty organization was created.
And after this time we have gotten along although we've had many differences between the 15
nations from passing what we call NATO.
Many of us have been interested for a long long time in having a citizens commission to work
as it with other commissions of other NATO nations.
A limited number to meet and to continue to discuss ways and means of improving the techniques
and the operations and the unity of our North Atlantic Treaty organization.
And last fall this resolution was passed by the Congress of the United States after
an effort.
And in March of this year the United States commission was created consisting of 20 members.
Today we're very honored in having with us the co-chairman of the United States Citizens
Commission on NATO.
They're men that you will know well and it's a great privilege and pleasure to have with
us in the studio Mr. Will Clayton of Tennessee and Texas, a former great undersecretary of
state and one of the fine and great men of our nation.
Mr. Will is good to have you with us today.
I certainly appreciate it.
And then I'll Mr. Clayton's right is Mr. Christian Hearder, a very able well-known governor,
former governor of Massachusetts and the secretary of state who served with great distinction and
merit and honor until we Democrats took over here recently.
Mr. Will first, we end on the sea of always been tremendously fond of you because you grew
up I believe at Jackson, Tennessee.
Thank you, I did.
I was read in Jackson.
Left island I was 15 years old when I have a very warm spot in my heart for Tennessee.
Yes sir and then after you became the head of Anderson's Clayton Company, one of our greatest
cotton company in the world and you were here as in government, you found a place called
Lookout Mountain and you built a home there and lived there for a number of years didn't
you?
Yes.
We had a summer home and lived there for 20 summers I think.
Well I can certify it because it's a wonderful place to spend the summer.
We have a between the bank and the insurance company and I see and I have a summer house
up there ourselves.
Well Mr. Hearder tell us about the work of the United States citizens commission and what
is the trouble with Nate toward the present time and what are we aiming at?
Well you bet for a pretty wide field.
Well you guess I can get a little part.
It is the commission as you know only got organized shortly after its appointment and in
recent weeks various members of the commission including real Clayton myself have been traveling
to different countries in order to stimulate the creation of similar committees in the
NATO countries so that in time we could organize a type of convention that was envisaged
in the resolution.
I think that that is progressing but it is a slow process because in the good many cases
it is not entirely clear just how the committee should be set up and we have set a rather unusual
precedent that others can't necessarily with some of their parliamentary restrictions follow
any objectives in detail.
Into further work of the commission is concerned I agree entirely with the very first words
you said but perhaps the most important thing today the priority from the front of view
of the free world is to make certain that the free nation for the world as represented
in large measure by the United community should be operating from a military political and
economic point of view in as close to the unit as it possibly yet.
I have been different as you know I think there is so well known that I am rather not going
to the detail of the difficulty but I think that among the free nations this is a characteristic
of free peoples that they do have differences as far as makes us strong I guess it doesn't
need but I think that the responsibility that is well Clayton and the members of our commission
have is to examine other difficulties and to explore as the resolution says rage in which
this group of the free world can strengthen the democratic free world in a very suspected
of a laid out particularly in the economic and the political field.
Well Mr. Will we usually think of NATO as a military alliance and I know that you have another
idea about an important part of NATO tell us about the other parts the political and the
economic.
Well I am particularly interested in Article 2 of the NATO agreement which provides that
the members of NATO which are now 15 countries shall cooperate together from the point of
view of strengthening their economic ties and cooperate in an economic sense as well as
a military sense and that Article 2 has not been put into operation to the extent that
I think it should be and we are hoping that we may be able to make some suggestions
as a result of the deliberations of this United States Citizens Commission on NATO that
will contribute to that end.
Well Chris and Herrers said that you and he had been together to a number of nations
where have you been Mr. Will?
We visited London and then bond and then Rome and then Paris for nations and Mr. Hader
Sensen has been to Canada.
And did you find what kind of reaction did you find among the people and the nations
that you went to?
We found a warm reception in all of those countries and a desire to cooperate with us in every
possible way.
Of course this commission setting up of this commission is rather a new thing in our country
and it certainly is new in that country that there should be a Citizens Commission that
would report to the government but would have no right to commit to government in any
way.
Well it is I think the commission we have is probably one of a very few of its type but
I have had the feeling that with wise men dedicated men like yourselves and I want to say
that I have never known a commission that had Abler, may unwell you do have one fine woman
on the commission too.
I received no compensation who has a matter of good for the world and for the country
who are giving them their time, thought and brains and influence towards this great effort.
Kristen, Mr. Clayton said you had been up to Canada.
What was your reaction there?
What the Canadians do about it?
Well the Canadian I saw members of the government as well as the various members of the parliamentary
bodies who had been concerned many of the NATO parliamentarians and they would like
to work out a method of representation to set up a commission.
They are very much interested as you know in Canada at the moment there is a really
discussion going on because of the influence at least in some of Mr. McMillan statements
that the British are going to join the common market and Canada naturally wondering as one
of the commonwealth countries what is going to become of the her special privilege is
as a commonwealth country in the British market.
So it's a pretty hot subject but I think that the Canadians all of those that I spoke to
feel that the exploration in which the commissions of this kind might make the other might be
very helpful and very useful.
Well, Kristen, how about Mr. Diffinbacker, the Prime Minister of Canada?
He's been very much interested in hasn't he?
Yes, he's been very much interested but he is very much concerned about this move for
the British at the moment and he is asked for meeting of the Prime Ministers of all the
commonwealth countries to discuss it.
I don't know whether that will come about or not because I know he said the British are
sending very high ranking ministers to those countries now to Australia and New Zealand
and Canada to discuss the relations that come to us.
They're also sending another high commissioner to some of their asianic members of the
commonwealth.
Well, the NATO parliamentarians in Canada have a meeting and take action.
Are you with them?
Yes, they did.
They discussed a thing from beginning to end.
We've been to one hour discussing very phases of it and then they have to resolution favouring
it.
So that Greece, one of our NATO nations has already set up a council or a commission similar
to ours.
How would they Mr. Will?
Yes, and they may say call a Hellenic citizens commission on NATO.
I've always been impressed with the fact that if a military alliance is going to survive
if we're going to have unity and strength that we had to have some better means of political
consultation, not that we follow on another's political policy in every case, but we all
at least each know what the others doing.
Like in the case, you were Secretary of State, I believe, or were you Mr. Herder when the
Suez of Fair came?
I was under Secretary of that time.
You were under Secretary of State.
And the French and British took move and it had not been discussed with the United States
although it involved the whole world.
Is that part of the things that you will be talking about when you meet with these representatives
of other countries?
Well, one of the problems in NATO that has always arisen has been so-called political consultation
that is the effort to try to get a common meeting ground and a common policy.
It improved very, very considerably.
But it is never going to be completely satisfactory in my way of thinking until our political ties
are stronger than the other present times.
And that will be part of the things that you will try to bring about, Mr. Chair.
That's right.
How do you view the General Western Atlantic picture of the present time, Mr. Will?
I think that it illustrates very strongly the need for some means of bringing the Western
of NATO countries and the OECD countries closer together.
If we are to successfully defend ourselves in America against the monolithic power of the
Soviet Union plus Chinese, they have a billion people now which is one out of every three
in the world.
And if it ever should get to be two out of three, I think the world has lost its freedom.
Well, I just want to say all my own ladies and gentlemen that I think are great hope for
pieces in the Atlantic community and free people standing together.
I think that Mr. Clayton and Mr. Header and the others on this commission are rendering
a great public service and trying to bring about ways and means so that we can stand together
well better.
We are indebted to them.
It may make the difference between peace and war in the days to come.
So Mr. Will Clayton, I want to thank you very much for being with us.
Yes.
Because the Commander is all for nicely your coming.
Be with us and we all appreciate it.
That's all for now.
Thank you very much.
Ladies and gentlemen, friends of Tennessee, these days we are all interested in instrumentalities
of peace.
We have been thinking for a long time all of us about how we can have person to person
to contact and the interest to better understanding and eventual peace relations in the world.
In this Congress there was no organization or new plan that started out with more skepticism,
more doubt about it, more an organization and turned out to have general approbation
and approval and peace core.
But we have all heard so much about in which we are so interested in.
We are very honored today to have with us the man who has organized the peace core,
who is its general director, who is giving it a very wonderful direction.
It is taking many nations of the world, sergeant's tribe, sergeant sugar to have you with us
today and to talk to my people in Tennessee and other states that may be listening and watching.
Thank you, Senator.
I am very happy to be here and have this chance to tell the people of Tennessee on your
program something about what the peace core is doing and what it hopes to do.
Before you do that, we all call you sergeant and everybody thinks that you might have been
a sergeant in the army or something, but actually you weren't a sergeant where you were.
No I wasn't, but it just happened to be my name, but I do make the point that sergeant
is the highest rank in the peace core.
We have very few animals around us.
We don't have any generals or admirals, but actually I think you were a lieutenant commander
in the Navy weren't you.
That's right, yes I was.
And I may say, incidentally, a very successful businessman who has given up his business to
devote it to this and very great coves.
Well, sergeant Tennessee has been playing a very important part in the peace core not only
as the daughter of our junior senator, Senator Gore and Nancy, one of your good volunteers
and the very star, isn't it?
That's right, Nancy's worked at our headquarters and the beginning has done a fine job too.
And then I believe Sam Babitt, who is the dean of students at Vanderbilt University,
is part of your organization?
Yes, I'm happy to say he is no longer the dean at Vanderbilt.
He's now working full-time for us.
He had a very successful and distinguished career in that work at Vanderbilt tonight with us.
That's a great loss to Vanderbilt, but it's a great game to you.
Then I believe Dr. Nicholas Hobbs, who was the, or maybe his, the professor of psychology
at P. Barat University, was head of this election group for the peace core was enough.
Yes, that's true, Senator.
And I think Nick Hobbs deserves a great deal of credit for the early success, which the
peace core has gained overseas because the payoff so far as the peace core is concerned
is how well does it do in the foreign country after the volunteers get there?
How well does the volunteers do their job?
And Nick Hobbs was the person responsible for the selection of all of the peace core volunteers
who are overseas now.
And we were talking about the dean of students at Sam Babitt, the dean of students at Vanderbilt
University.
Yes.
Well, we're proud of the part that Tennessee is playing and has played.
Now tell us just what does the peace core do?
What is your plan?
What is your program?
What is your success then?
Yes.
Well, the peace core today is operating in 12 different foreign countries.
Right now we're concentrating in the area of education, in health, in agriculture, and
in the various skilled crafts such as the Carpenters, Laborers, Plumbers, etc.
For the most part, so far, we've concentrated in the education area.
And I include in that all kinds of education, primary education, high school, university
education, agricultural education, home economics, and so on.
It doesn't all just take place in a classroom.
And a person to qualify does not have to be a teacher in the sense that they have a teaching
certificate here in our country.
We've taken a great many bachelor's of arts or bachelor's of science, graduates of good
colleges in our country, and made them into very effective teachers in Africa and South
America and over in Asia.
Well, how are they getting along, Sergeant?
Well, they're getting along wonderfully well so far.
The best indication, Senator, of their success is the fact that every one of the countries
where the peace core is now operating has asked us to double or triple or even quadruple
the number of peace core volunteers in those countries.
Not necessarily.
It's a recommendation now.
Do you go into countries unless they ask you to and unless they welcome you and unless
they cooperate with you?
No, we don't.
We insist in fact that we be invited before we go.
And in a cost-conscious country like ours, I think it's interesting that every one of
the nations has already voluntarily contributed money and services and other goods to the
peace core.
Without us even asking them for it, for example, one country has supplied all the housing.
A large part of the public transportation around in the country that we have to use has
been given to us.
Other forms of equipment, one country in South America has provided almost a million
dollars worth of their equipment to us voluntarily.
Well, I guess, of course, some of these are developing nations and living conditions
might not be very any too pleasant.
They may have many hardships.
Do you have any complaints from the people in the peace core?
Well, we've been lucky so far.
The people who volunteer for the peace core in the first instance are very well motivated,
a highly motivated individuals.
And they know before they go overseas that there are going to be problems and difficulties.
But so far we've been lucky.
For example, in the area of disease, many people thought that there would be a lot of accidents
or disease in many of these countries.
The United States Public Health Service is responsible for the health of the peace core volunteers.
They have told us that they, the public health service, has been surprised at the small
amount of disease which has afflicted the peace core so far.
We're very lucky that one.
How many do you have in the peace core at the present time in massage?
Well, it's changing almost hourly as we make this telecast senator between Thursday of
this week and Monday of next week, 333 new volunteers will go into training with the
peace core.
So as of today, we have about 700 overseas.
We have 200 in training and over this weekend we'll put another 300 in training.
So if you add all that up, it comes with about 1200 people.
And I heard you say somewhere the other day that only less than a half a dozen had asked
to come home.
Is that correct?
That's right.
We've brought four home from overseas.
One was what we call compassionate case because this boy's father died and they get a large
number of brothers and sisters.
His mother needed him back to help support the family.
Another one was the famous postal card girl from Nigeria.
The girl wrote the postal card and creates such a ruckus at that time.
Yes, she was a very fine girl, too.
I'm sure.
She was a magnum, a comalaud graduate of Smith College incidentally.
She had been trained at Harvard and she's still working for the peace core.
I'm happy to say she's in our Washington headquarters and in June, I think it is going to be
married and perhaps you'll be able to continue to work for it.
When I say you have a lot of volunteers, it doesn't mean that anyone who volunteers can
get in does it?
It does.
No, it doesn't.
So we're getting new volunteers now at the rate of 2000 a month.
So we expect that between January and June, for example, about 12,000 people will volunteer
for the peace core.
We probably won't take more than 3,000 of those.
So about one out of every four or one out of every five applicants gets in.
Are they mostly college graduates or young people or what kind of people are?
About 80% are college graduates now.
But we hope that many more people who do not have a college degree will volunteer for
the peace core.
Countries overseas need skilled craftsmen, construction people, automacanics, diesel engineers, nurses,
job laboratory technicians, practical nurses and so on.
And many of these people don't have college degrees.
They don't need to have a college degree.
What's more, they don't have to speak the language.
We teach them the language.
I'll go ask you what kind of training do they have before they go and say they're going
to some nation and Africa, South America, Asia, what kind of training do they have?
Well, they get, I think, a really rare type of training in that we give training in the
culture, customs and traditions of the foreign country to which they're going.
We train in the language.
We teach them about American history and government and politics.
We give them physical education.
We give them health education.
So that when they arrive in the foreign country, they arrive there knowing the history and
the culture of that country.
They know the language of the country.
And the job that they're going to do in that country has already been selected for
them.
They know what kind of work they're going to do and they've been prepared to do that work.
So I started so often in connection with our diplomats and it may not be justified.
There's a complaint that they live to themselves and they have big capitals of the city of
the countries they go to.
How about the members of the Peace Corps?
Did they get out and mix and live with the people and get to know them and work with
them directly?
Well, Senator, that is one of the basic requirements of the Peace Corps, namely that our personnel
live with the natives or the citizens of the foreign country that they're living in.
But I'd say 85% of all Peace Corps volunteers live outside of the capital cities.
The only ones who live in a capital city are people who are teaching, for example, in
a big university in the capital city.
In Bangkok, the big university, as you all know, is called Kula Long Court University.
We have 10 men on the faculty of that university.
So they do live in Bangkok, but most, by far, the great majority, maybe 80 to 90% of our
people live in the rural communities of various countries.
Of course, ours, the Peace Corps has only been going for just a few months, but from
people coming from countries where Peace Corps has been operating, it seems to me that it's
already paying great dividends, but it's been your experience of what's your report.
Well, we agree that some of the most encouraging things have been articles written on the Peace
Corps by foreign journalists and by foreign celebrities, even like Arnold Toyne, be the famous
British historian, voluntarily wrote an article for the London Times, which was printed
all over the world, commending the Peace Corps and telling about the volunteers that he had
seen.
The Associated Press, the United Press, the British news gathering agency called Reuters.
All of these people have interviewed the Peace Corps and have talked to experts about the
Peace Corps in foreign countries.
We have no way of controlling what they publish or say, and uniformly so far, the reports
by these nonpartisan third party groups have been favorable to our operations.
I know that the Peace Corps goes to a lot of neutral countries and a lot of newly developing
countries.
On stand you have a number of Peace Corps people in the Philippines, which is a friendly
nation.
Why would you send Peace Corps representatives to a friendly nation?
Well, maybe I'm all fashion, but I believe in making better friends of the friends you
already have.
I agree with you very thoroughly.
There are things to be sort of a tendency in some quarters to think that you only do business
with people that you might lose, that the neutral nations, the so-called neutral nations,
are the ones that you should curry favor with.
Well, I'm in favor of working with the neutral nations.
We have people in Ghana and other neutral nations, but still in all, I think that when a country
has proven its friendship for us, they're trying to follow the democratic free way of life
and to have trade with us and so on, that we should try to help them too.
And the Philippines is an outstanding example and the Pacific of this type of favorable
country, favorable to ours.
I heard you say where they had 45 different languages or dialects and that they're all
being told English.
Is that so?
Yeah, that's true.
Because in the Philippines, one of the essential ingredients for keeping those islands
together as a nation is that they have a common language and the only language they have
in common now is English.
Also, we've often heard and talked about the fact that Philippines should be a symbol
in the far east of democracy at work.
But we forget sometimes that the only way that the Philippines can communicate with the
rest of the Asia, a rest of Asia, is in English.
If they don't know English, they can't talk to the people who live in Thailand or even
up in Formosa.
So, English is essential as well.
And it's been wonderfully accepted in the Philippines, is that not true?
Yes, that's true.
Well, what are the communists there, that peace corps?
What's their reaction?
Well, it just happens that yesterday I got a new publication issued and printed in China.
It has mailed, say, Tongs picture on the cover and it's distributed all over the world.
This particular copy happened to be picked up in Africa and it was a long article in
there blasting the Peace Corps saying that we were a tool of imperialist aggression, that
we were a nest of spies, that we were out to subvert the people's liberties all over
the world.
And it was indicative to us at any rate that the communists don't like the Peace Corps.
Now, if they don't like the Peace Corps, I'm pleased.
That's a good sign you're doing a lot of good.
Well, how much is the Peace Corps costing this year, for instance?
Well, the Congress gave us $30 million as senators, you remember, and that will be enough
to operate us through the first year and to bring about 5,000 Americans into Peace Corps
service.
Right now, we're asking for another $30 million in addition to the first one to bring
in an additional 5,000 people.
And we've been very much encouraged because the committees here on the Hill have supported
our requests so far.
Liberals as well as reactionaries.
Well, I wish we could go on, but that's all the time we have.
I want to thank you for Sergeant Striver for telling us all about the Peace Corps.
That's all until next time, ladies and gentlemen.
Thank you very much.